# FoodSimilarity
Code and datasets for behavioral and neuroimaging Food Similarity studies

Study 1:
Carrington, M., Liu, A. G., Martin, A., & Avery, J. (2023, June 29). Naturalistic food categories are driven by subjective estimates rather than objective measures of food qualities. https://doi.org/10.31234/osf.io/yz2mp

Study 2:
Avery, J., Carrington, M., Ingeholm, J. E., Simmons, W. K., Hall, K. D., & Martin, A. (2023, July 10). Dissociable prefrontal and limbic brain networks represent distinct information about the healthiness and pleasantness of food. https://doi.org/10.31234/osf.io/9qswa


Contents:
FT_Paper_Analyses.R - Analysis and figure creation code for Study 1
FoodTriplet_DATA/ - This folder contains data for Study 1
    foods.csv - all the foods types used in the study along with their 'naturalistic' categories and their original group assignments
    food_pics_data.csv - Nutrient Data, Principal Components, and Rating data for all foods in this study
    food_triplet_dataset(1/2).csv - raw triplet data output from online participants
    food_similarity_matrix.csv - similarity matrix generated from triplet data, see script for analysis code
    participant_stats.csv - demographic info on the triplet task participants
    *Also included are several plots generated by code in the script*
image_files/ - the food images used in Study 1

FLS_Paper_Analyses.R - Analysis and figure creation code for Study 2 
FLS_DATA/ - This folder contains data for Study 2
    FLS_foods.csv - same as foods.csv above
    food_roi_mat.csv - ROI level food similarity matrix for each food-responsive ROI. The upper triangular portion of these matrices have been flattened into a column vector
    food_roi_corr_mat.csv - the 2nd level ROIxROI similarity matrix used for sub-network clustering
    RSA_subject_data_food_loc_zscores.csv - the long-form data table with z-scores from RSAs (Representational Similarity Analyses) within each food-responsive ROI
    cluster_rdm.csv - a simple binary RDM (Representational Dis-similarity Matrix) used for RSAs, where the edges between foods in the same cluster (naturalistic category) are coded as 0 (signifying no distance b/t foods) and foods in different clusters are coded as a 1 (signifying some distance b/t foods)
    category_rdm.csv - same as above, but for the original Sweet/Fat food sub-categories
    3dROIstats.ples.roi_data.csv - long form average beta coefficient data from food ROIs, taken from the Food Pleasantness task. The column 'Ples_UM' means the unmodulated beta coefficient for food pictures, a block regressor representing the onset and duration of the food image presentation. The 'Ples_AM' means the amplitude-modulated beta coefficient, which represents the variation in signal intensity (of the neural response to food images) which is related to participants moment-to-moment pleasantness ratings.
    alexnet_f10_cormat.csv - a visual RDM created from the bottom layer of a neural network designed to simulate the visual cortical response to the food images from the Food Pictures task. Used as a regressor of non-interest in searchlight RSA. 
    *Also included are some plots generated by code in the script*
